Caption: so right now we have two wonderful
Caption: individuals
Caption: my left I have swen it is swen's first
Caption: time presenting so please give her a
Caption: warm welcome
Caption: now swen is a final year student
Caption: studying a Bachelor of Computer Science
Caption: with a major in cyber security she's
Caption: also a student ambassador for the School
Caption: of Science at ECU and he's also doing an
Caption: internship at retrospect Labs damn girl
Caption: you're busy
Caption: um George you're a tech geek 20 years uh
Caption: by the looks of things you're also a
Caption: gamer at night yes love it on that note
Caption: I'm gonna hand it over so I don't talk
Caption: too much good luck thank you thank you
Caption: all right
Caption: everyone can hear me fine
Caption: cool man I know so many of you in the
Caption: room it feels like a family reunion this
Caption: is awesome so thank you for coming to
Caption: the talk with me and Swan uh before we
Caption: get started I want to say thank you to
Caption: all of our sponsors because without the
Caption: sponsors we don't have uh this amazing
Caption: day I'm not sure if any of you have been
Caption: involved with running conferences before
Caption: but without sponsors then they're
Caption: impossible and like to get a conference
Caption: like this for 60 bucks is just like it's
Caption: unheard of so that's really cool so
Caption: thank you very much to the sponsors
Caption: so uh this is the agenda we will be
Caption: going over today what can go wrong which
Caption: may lead to financial loss what we can
Caption: do to reduce the risk and a short wrap
Caption: up with the key takeaways from today's
Caption: talk
Caption: ah sorry forgot to introduce myself my
Caption: name is Sun Lee uh like she said I am a
Caption: final year cyber security student at
Caption: Edith Cohen University I am also a mini
Caption: mini vlogger on Instagram during my free
Caption: time and I play a little bit of ping
Caption: pong when I'm not rushing my assignments
Caption: and I can play a few instruments like
Caption: the piano the electron the guitar but
Caption: not all at once so over to you George
Caption: thank you so uh for those that don't
Caption: know me I am a Cloud solution architect
Caption: at Microsoft in the cyber security I do
Caption: a lot of stuff with the Defenders so if
Caption: you've heard of the defender products
Caption: then you know what I do I play games I
Caption: play lots of Rocket League I'm a champ
Caption: one but I should be you know a grand
Caption: champ and uh I'm also my dad I've got
Caption: two little kids and they
Caption: like to share in case you've heard my
Caption: sexy voice
Caption: um I don't normally have such a deep
Caption: voice but yeah so that's us
Caption: so I've got to fess up you know it's a
Caption: bit of a click bait title with the um
Caption: with the talk so thank you for um voting
Caption: Us in
Caption: um we we do have like a serious topic to
Caption: talk about
Caption: um and uh we'll we'll get into it right
Caption: now but you know so how can
Caption: you lose your money and what can go
Caption: wrong
Caption: so
Caption: I was trying to put the talk together
Caption: I've got swen uh who's our you know my
Caption: protege and and wants to learn how to
Caption: talk at conferences so what's a nice
Caption: topical generic subject we can speak
Caption: about in order to educate and you know
Caption: not be too deep and intimidating I'm
Caption: like well let's talk about Sim swapping
Caption: has anyone heard of sim swapping
Caption: manual
Caption: all right so just imagine you're holding
Caption: your phone scrolling through Tick Tock
Caption: and sitting there waiting for the bus or
Caption: whatever and then all of a sudden your
Caption: data stops and then you look at the top
Caption: and instead of it saying Optus or
Caption: Telstra or Vodafone it says SOS
Caption: that's the experience you'll receive
Caption: when you've been Sim swapped essentially
Caption: what a Sim swap is is someone
Caption: fraudulently pretends to be you and
Caption: steals your phone number
Caption: all right so why do they do that most
Caption: banks are pretty sucky with their
Caption: security sorry Banks and specially
Caption: Bankwest being a sponsor but like you
Caption: know your MFA
Caption: normally is SMS with a bank so if you
Caption: own the phone number then they can
Caption: pretty much say that they're you verify
Caption: money transfers
Caption: um
Caption: the other reason why Sim swaps can be
Caption: somewhat effective is especially on a
Caption: prepaid service you don't need a lot of
Caption: information to do a Sim swap
Caption: so I thought I'd do a Sim swap on myself
Caption: I did it with a prepaid that I
Caption: registered and then I got another
Caption: prepaid sim I'm not going to do it with
Caption: my details but um basically you can see
Caption: here this is the number
Caption: and I needed to know these two things
Caption: right so these can be found reasonably
Caption: easy like if a hacker was doing this
Caption: you'd assume that they've already
Caption: compromised you in some way probably
Caption: I've got your email box there's like a
Caption: statistic like 98.9 of gmails do not
Caption: have two-factor authentication turned on
Caption: them right and
Caption: there's an odds odds are a lot of people
Caption: are quite sucky with their passwords and
Caption: reuse passwords and we'll talk about
Caption: that in a little while but um so to do a
Caption: Sim swap you need to know a phone number
Caption: and you need to know the provider
Caption: and then all you need to do is have an
Caption: ID type so for
Caption: circles.life you need to have either a
Caption: driver's license a Medicare card or a
Caption: passport number but they don't actually
Caption: verify that you just need to know the
Caption: number
Caption: right so there's my license number
Caption: but you know because it's so easy I'm
Caption: not going to give it to you there's my
Caption: first name my middle name shown on my
Caption: license my last name
Caption: then you need the date of birth
Caption: but if you've got the license number
Caption: you've probably got the date of birth
Caption: right like an attacker is going to be
Caption: prepared they're not going to be like
Caption: some schmuck like me trying to simulate
Caption: it for your benefit so you know and you
Caption: need the email but once you've got that
Caption: like to me that's not a very high bar if
Caption: you're able to compromise someone's
Caption: email
Caption: and then you verify it with a code sent
Caption: to the email it's blurrier than I
Caption: thought it would be sorry
Caption: um but then that initiates the um the
Caption: Sim swap
Caption: so that was the text I got
Caption: um that was the the validation of the ID
Caption: but you saw that was all of the
Caption: information I gave them so you don't
Caption: need the physical ID you just need the
Caption: information and I know that like in the
Caption: past when I've traveled say overseas
Caption: I've um
Caption: taken a scan of important documents just
Caption: so I don't lose it if in case you know I
Caption: lose it I can prove who I am so I
Caption: haven't deleted that I don't know how
Caption: long people have had the same mailbox
Caption: but I've had some for 15 years and
Caption: that's got a lot of Pi in it and if I
Caption: lost access then I'd lose it
Caption: so
Caption: so you may ask why you should care about
Caption: this and what does all of this have to
Caption: do with you as a consumer well as
Caption: consumers we need to protect ourselves
Caption: against
Caption: hackers
Caption: what that was meant to be humorous but
Caption: never mind
Caption: so next up we are going to talk about
Caption: potential attack vectors which may lead
Caption: to account compromise
Caption: there are many websites that have been
Caption: compromised try hand Publishers a site
Caption: you can use to see which one of your
Caption: accounts have been compromised if they
Caption: are so this is a very popular website
Caption: called have I been pawned we actually
Caption: use this at the Cohen University for our
Caption: cyber security workshops as well and
Caption: just simply in your sorry just simply
Caption: key in your email address or your phone
Caption: number and this website tells you
Caption: whether or not it has been compromised
Caption: and how many instances that has happened
Caption: so this website keeps a database of
Caption: accounts with their credentials
Caption: compromised as you can see here there
Caption: are
Caption: 626 websites hacked 11 billion accounts
Caption: breached and
Caption: I don't know what those two are but yeah
Caption: password reuse so even if you secure the
Caption: data well the user might just give it
Caption: away with poor password hygiene
Caption: so can we have a show of hands of how
Caption: many people here we use the same
Caption: password across multiple sites
Caption: ah ah
Caption: wait I want to know who those are I want
Caption: to hack you oh wait sorry about that uh
Caption: so anyway
Caption: according to this website dataprod.net
Caption: on average the same password is used to
Caption: access five different accounts which
Caption: like I said I wanted to hack you guys so
Caption: if you could just write down your
Caption: credentials and put it over here I would
Caption: very much appreciate that
Caption: I'm sure this has been enforced in a lot
Caption: of account logins especially in
Caption: organizations multi-factor
Caption: authentication or MFA when you develop
Caption: an application encourage or enforce your
Caption: users to register for multi-factor
Caption: Authentication
Caption: ideally you do not build your own
Caption: authentication process but leverage an
Caption: authentication provider that manages the
Caption: user accounts securely and provides a
Caption: secure authentication process with
Caption: two-factor Authentication
Caption: hyperscalers all allow for it for
Caption: example Azure and other dedicated
Caption: providers providers for authentication
Caption: like r0 who has their Booth right
Caption: outside or Microsoft authenticator and
Caption: so on
Caption: just don't use SMS for MFA how because
Caption: we've already proven something kind of a
Caption: sucky method right
Caption: so uh dependency hell uh when you write
Caption: software you don't write everything from
Caption: Star we just said don't use don't roll
Caption: your own authentication like that's a a
Caption: rule that people hopefully all follow
Caption: but at the same time you know if you've
Caption: got to log files you don't want to write
Caption: your own logging solution there's
Caption: logging Solutions out there there's this
Caption: awesome one called log4j people may have
Caption: heard of it
Caption: um then there's you know maybe you want
Caption: to upload files to a website or a web
Caption: server collect documents you use a
Caption: library or you use a dependency but the
Caption: problem is
Caption: when you use it you don't know what's in
Caption: that Library it can be like a real mess
Caption: right so this is an uh a comic
Caption: um if you go find it you'll see like
Caption: there's this this piece of string from
Caption: this chaos
Caption: all the way you know so it looks nice
Caption: and harmless here
Caption: you trust it because it does what you
Caption: need it to do but it's a mess all right
Caption: so who wrote it what checks have they
Caption: done is it safe and secure or are they
Caption: you know gonna give your data away
Caption: oh look look for Jay so if you don't
Caption: know what log 4J was it was like the
Caption: most fun Christmas present uh security
Caption: team was ever given
Caption: because basically there was a
Caption: vulnerability which anyone could exploit
Caption: by using a URL from memory
Caption: um and then
Caption: they patched it and the patch didn't
Caption: work so they went through all this
Caption: trouble to patch it and it didn't work
Caption: so then they had to patch it again but
Caption: then that didn't work so they had to
Caption: patch it again and they fixed the
Caption: problem by actually removing the feature
Caption: so it was good time and like it was it's
Caption: been used in so many places that it was
Caption: um a real nightmare and the other
Caption: example we've got for this is the tiny
Caption: file manager which I'd never heard of I
Caption: actually searched through cve
Caption: vulnerabilities looking for examples
Caption: that were pretty straightforward this
Caption: package allows you to upload files in a
Caption: website right and this one here if you
Caption: upload a file and that file has the
Caption: right file name you can actually put
Caption: code in the file name and it would
Caption: execute the code so it um it seemed like
Caption: a pretty simple one to execute if you
Caption: knew that it was vulnerable so you know
Caption: you just want to be able to upload files
Caption: you don't care how it does it but maybe
Caption: you need to
Caption: okay let's talk about storing customer
Caption: data
Caption: authentication we need to ensure that
Caption: the user is the person they say they are
Caption: by authentication this means that only
Caption: an application is allowed to access
Caption: certain data for example when we have a
Caption: server on the back end that manages
Caption: multiple websites and we only want
Caption: website a to be allowed to access to
Caption: authenticate database B
Caption: Access Control
Caption: that means to check if a user is allowed
Caption: to access an application or a database
Caption: that he or she is trying to access for
Caption: instance a human resource manager of a
Caption: company is allowed to access the
Caption: database that contains employees
Caption: information but an IT admin does not
Caption: this will also prevent Hackers from
Caption: easily obtaining a company sensitive
Caption: information
Caption: so this also applies if you're writing
Caption: an application you can have a service
Caption: principle which is like a user account
Caption: for the application itself you can
Caption: assign only the permissions that it's
Caption: needed so that it can only authenticate
Caption: against the services it needs to
Caption: authenticate and then once it's
Caption: authenticated it can only access the
Caption: data or services that it needs to access
Caption: so it works equally the same with a
Caption: human or with an application
Caption: and then we've got two more uh parts
Caption: around the storing we're looking at the
Caption: encrypting data when it's at rest and
Caption: when it's that Transit so just assuming
Caption: you um your service is compromised and
Caption: they are able to steal that data if it's
Caption: encrypted at rest and you know you
Caption: haven't done something silly like put
Caption: your encryption key in your code then
Caption: odds are they're not going to be able to
Caption: do much with that blob of data like a
Caption: modern encryption system is such that it
Caption: can't be easily cracked even if you're
Caption: you know leveraging the power of a
Caption: nation state and then also in transit
Caption: when you're sending data between Network
Caption: Services or you know a modern web
Caption: service would have multiple components
Caption: sending the data between those
Caption: components you want to make sure you're
Caption: using an encrypted Channel because
Caption: especially if you're using
Caption: um you know
Caption: cheap providers or trying to rationalize
Caption: across multiple providers
Caption: sending that data might go over the
Caption: public internet or I might go over
Caption: shared channels so if you have your
Caption: encryption you're maintaining privacy
Caption: between your different endpoints so it's
Caption: it's super important to make sure you're
Caption: using encryption
Caption: so
Caption: we've got some key takeaways
Caption: passwords are terrible
Caption: if you can move away from passwords
Caption: probably a bit hard if you're just
Caption: writing a web app to you know do your
Caption: fantasy football or something but you
Caption: still could you know not to show
Caption: Microsoft but I work there and you know
Caption: my authenticator allows you to do
Caption: password less and I know that other
Caption: authentication providers allow you to do
Caption: password like through a push
Caption: notification so then your device
Caption: becomes your password
Caption: and it doesn't have to be tied to your
Caption: phone number which is good
Caption: second software dependencies you rely on
Caption: might be your undoing so please be sure
Caption: that your dependencies that your or your
Caption: your software libraries that you're
Caption: using that they're safe and you've got
Caption: some sort of process to make sure that
Caption: they stay updated you know
Caption: you can't write everything you have to
Caption: rely on it but you also need to have a
Caption: process to make sure that it stays safe
Caption: and lastly make sure you store your data
Caption: securely because
Caption: um you know that's what your customers
Caption: trust you to do
Caption: thank you
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: alrighty guys first of all that was
Caption: fantastic we do have some time for
Caption: questions so if you want to pop your
Caption: hands up I'll come around with the
Caption: microphone and you can feel really cool
Caption: like me and talking to it and ask a
Caption: question
Caption: come on guys
Caption: you are my man
Caption: thanks guys so just quick question on um
Caption: password so what if he's out of that
Caption: like uses like Google to log in is that
Caption: better than password oh yeah
Caption: yeah yeah like a hyperscaler is going to
Caption: do a much better job than yourself
Caption: or you know even if you're leveraging
Caption: like a PHP library or something like
Caption: that just just seeing if you can
Caption: Outsource to a company that is doing
Caption: millions of logins a day or a second or
Caption: whatever then they're going to have a
Caption: lot more better protection
Caption: I'm going to Chuck a question in should
Caption: I go and put my email address in that
Caption: have I been porn yes like seriously I
Caption: should probably do that between yes yeah
Caption: okay cool we learn something new every
Caption: day
Caption: I just wanted to ask what is your
Caption: opinion on authentication tokens or the
Caption: ones that do the generation numbers that
Caption: some companies give you
Caption: oh like an RSA token yeah yeah generally
Caption: pretty safe I mean like because you need
Caption: to have registered on the device that
Caption: you trust whether it's your little token
Caption: or if it's the authenticator app on your
Caption: phone
Caption: um so there's only one source of that
Caption: six digit number to log in
Caption: right so when you lose your phone it's a
Caption: pain in the you know because you
Caption: sometimes have a whole series of codes
Caption: that you can use as one-time logins to
Caption: prove you are who you are but even if
Caption: someone does a Sim swap they're not
Caption: stealing all the data on your phone so
Caption: if you've got like the Google
Caption: Authenticator Microsoft authenticator
Caption: LastPass authenticator twilio
Caption: authenticator like there's
Caption: authenticators everywhere if you're
Caption: using just one of those then that is the
Caption: source of truth even if someone steals
Caption: your password good let them
Caption: oh duck there was one here
Caption: uh just curious uh you recommended we
Caption: try to use different passwords for
Caption: different platforms
Caption: um I do know we have some free open
Caption: password manager
Caption: two do you recommend people to use it if
Caption: so what kind of tools do you use
Caption: personally except the kitchen like
Caption: iPhone use so yeah
Caption: these one uh personally I do not but I
Caption: have my organization people sitting over
Caption: there and they use Bill Warden as their
Caption: password manager I hope they don't kill
Caption: me when I get off the stage
Caption: uh I don't want to read that report
Caption: um I use LastPass and
Caption: um
Caption: LastPass but that one's a paid one but
Caption: I'm lucky because I became a customer
Caption: like 2012 so I knew still pay 12 us a
Caption: year for it and
Caption: the other one which is on the have I
Caption: been owned past uh key pass no
Caption: one password thank you yes
Caption: and I also use my phone but it syncs
Caption: across yeah
Caption: and so when I don't think you'll get in
Caption: trouble you can hack me later on from
Caption: what I've worked out we might make it up
Caption: we'll talk about this later
Caption: yeah all right thanks for that um I was
Caption: going to ask about password managers as
Caption: well so some of them are offering the
Caption: MFA functionality in there as well do
Caption: you think that's a good idea having the
Caption: password and the MFA yes like like one
Caption: password for example yes and then you
Caption: mentioned LastPass but even the password
Caption: managers are getting compromised yes
Caption: like they had a recent issue in the dev
Caption: environment I think and I don't know
Caption: what do you what's your take on all that
Caption: so LastPass was compromised only a week
Caption: or two ago like their servers got done
Caption: and I'm completely comfortable with that
Caption: because the way LastPass works is they
Caption: just get an encrypted blob of data and
Caption: your master password is the key to
Caption: decrypt that blob of data so
Caption: and you know if they can guess their
Caption: password and and that's not like a
Caption: random generated one because I have to
Caption: type it from memory
Caption: um but it's still you know almost 20
Caption: characters long so
Caption: I feel good about that um I would feel
Caption: bad if there was like poorly written
Caption: code which meant they could bypass the
Caption: encryption key or do it another way then
Caption: I'd feel really sucky about it um having
Caption: um the MFA in the same solution as the
Caption: password manager I'm fine with because
Caption: my password manager I can log in on like
Caption: I don't know how many devices but the
Caption: MFA still stays on that same device and
Caption: it's like that single source of Truth
Caption: still so if you know you buy a new phone
Caption: you need to transfer that MFA from one
Caption: to the other
Caption: um
Caption: so yeah it's pretty good
Caption: these guys have killed
Caption: killed it and when I look forward to
Caption: seeing you next year too all right guys
Caption: we do have another session in here I
Caption: have just lost my notes to give me two
Caption: secs and I'll let you know who it is
Caption: alrighty guys at 12 50 we've got Josh
Caption: Armitage with serverless testing local
Caption: considered harmful